                              BALTIMORE CITY CHARTER

DEFINITIONS. (§ I-2)

As used in this Charter, unless the context otherwise requires:
 (a)  City.
“City” means the Mayor and City Council of Baltimore, the body corporate as
established by
Section 1 of this Article I.
 (b)  Voter.
“Voter” means any person whose name appears on the election records kept by
the Board of
Supervisors of Elections of Baltimore City, as a qualified voter in the City.
 (c)  Charter.
 “Charter” means this Charter, composed of Articles I to IX, inclusive, and
any amendments and
additions thereto which may hereafter be duly adopted; reference herein to
articles and sections
by number are references to articles and sections of the Charter.
 (d)  Person.
“Person” means any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company,
association, or body
politic except the City; and includes any personal representative, agent,
trustee, receiver, assignee
or other similar representative thereof.
 (e)  Number; gender.
Except where such construction would be unreasonable, the singular always
includes the plural,
and vice versa, and the masculine includes all genders.
 (f)  Officer; municipal officer.
“Officer” and “municipal officer” shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the heads of all
departments and bureaus, the members of all commissions and boards, and persons
who exercise
authority comparable to that of heads of departments or bureaus.
 (g)  Term of office.
“Term of office” means the period of time for which any person shall have
been elected or
appointed to hold office, and in addition such time as shall elapse after the
expiration of his term
until his successor shall have been elected or appointed and qualified.
 (h)  Ordinance of Estimates.
“Ordinance of Estimates” and “annual Ordinance of Estimates” shall
include supplementary
appropriation ordinances.
 (i)  Subject to the authority.
“Subject to the authority” shall mean that the person or body possessed of
such authority may
amend or revoke the action or decision subject to such authority or reserve to
himself or itself
such action or decision.
 (j)  Municipal agency.
“Municipal agency” shall include all departments, bureaus, boards and
commissions and persons
not embraced in a department who exercise authority comparable to that of heads
of departments
or bureaus.
 (k)  Street.
“Street”, unless the contrary clearly appears from the context, shall
include any public street,
boulevard, road, alley, lane, sidewalk, footway or other public way owned by the
city or
habitually used as such by the public.
 (1)  Members.
Wherever provision is made in the Charter that the City Council shall act by a
majority or other
proportion of its members, the term “members” in the phrase “of its
members” shall mean the
total number of members provided for by law, including the President, whether or
not any
vacancies due to death, resignation, disqualification or other cause may then
exist.
 (m)  Headings.
Any headings preceding the text of the several articles and sections hereof are
inserted solely for
convenience of reference, and shall not constitute a part of the Charter, nor
shall they affect its
meaning, construction or effect.
 (n)  Acting.
“Acting” status authorizes one who is substituting for another to exercise
the powers and perform
the duties of the other’s office.
 (o)  Law.
“Law” consists of those rules that bind or control the actions of Baltimore
City and its officers
and agents, including, when applicable, federal law, state law and city
ordinances.
