                              BALTIMORE CITY CHARTER

TRAFFIC. (§ II-42)

(a)  Traffic Commission.
To create a Traffic Commission and prescribe its powers and duties, including
the right to
transfer to said Commission the powers and duties now exercised and performed by
the Traffic
Bureau of the Police Department of the City.
 (b)  Personnel transfer.
To provide by ordinance for the transfer of the personnel, including the Traffic
Engineer of the
Traffic Bureau of the Police Department, but such transfer shall not operate to
deprive the
employees so transferred of any rights they may have in the Special Fund or
Special Fund for
Widows of the Police Department.  Any employee so transferred may, however,
elect to become
a member of the Employees’ Retirement System of Baltimore City, under such
rules and
regulations as the Trustees of said Employees’ Retirement System shall
provide, including the
right of withdrawal of his contributions to either or both of said Special
Police Funds and
depositing the same with the Employees’ Retirement System; and any employee so
electing to
become a member of the Employees’ Retirement System shall thereafter have no
further rights in
said Special Police Funds.  Any employee so transferred who elects not to become
a member of
the Employees’ Retirement System shall be entitled to pensions, benefits or
allowances for
himself, his widow or dependents under the laws or ordinances in force
immediately before the
adoption of such ordinance.
 (c)  Classification of positions.
The ordinance providing for said transfer shall contain a provision authorizing
and directing the
Civil Service Commission to classify all positions so transferred and all
persons so transferred
shall be included in the new classifications of their respective positions
without examination and
without any reduction in pay.
 (d)  Transferred members of Special Funds.
Employees of the present Department of Transit and Traffic who were transferred
from the
Traffic Bureau of the Police Department in 1951, and who are members of either
the Special
Fund or Special Fund for Widows of the Police Department, shall continue to be
assessed 2% for
each fund, based on their current salaries, which will include pay increases and
changes in
classification subsequent to their transfer in 1951, and shall be pensioned in
accordance with the
scale observed by the Police Department for members of the two special funds.
When future general pay increases are granted and salaries of members of the
Police Department
and pensioned employees are raised in proportion, all employees of the
Department of Transit
and Traffic who were members of the special funds and who are pensioned under
their
provisions, shall be granted raises in their pension payments in the same
proportion as those
pensioned from the Police Department.
