                              BALTIMORE CITY CHARTER

CONTRACT DISPUTES. (§ II-4A)

(a)  Sovereign immunity.
Unless otherwise specifically provided by the laws of Maryland, Baltimore City,
its officers,
departments, agencies, boards, commissions, or other units of government may not
raise the
defense of sovereign immunity in the courts of this State in an action in
contract based on a
written contract executed on behalf of the City, department, agency, board,
commission, or unit
by an official or employee acting within the scope of authority.
 (b)  Statutory immunity.
In any action in contract described in subsection (a) of this section, Baltimore
City, its officers,
departments, agencies, boards, commissions, and other units of government have
the immunity
from liability described in §&nbsp;5-509 of the Courts and Judicial Proceedings
Article.
 (c)  Limitations.
 A claim is barred unless the claimant files suit within 1 year from the date on
which the claim
arose or within 1 year after completion of the contract giving rise to the
claim, whichever is later.
 (d)  Funds to satisfy final judgment.
The Mayor and City Council of Baltimore shall make available adequate funds for
the
satisfaction, after the exhaustion of any right of appeal, of a final judgment
that has been
rendered against the City or any officer, department, agency, board, commission,
or other unit of
government in an action in contract as provided in this section.
 (e)  Construction contracts – In general.
 Except as provided in subsections (f) and (g) of this section, Baltimore City
may not require in a
construction contract, or otherwise provide with regard to a construction
contract, to which it is a
party, that a dispute between the parties involving $10,000 or more over the
terms of the contract
or performance under the contract be subject to final binding or conclusive
determination by an
officer or official body of Baltimore City.
 (f)  Construction contracts – Decision by neutral party or arbitration panel.
 With regard to a construction contract to which it is a party, Baltimore City
may provide or
require that if there is a dispute over the terms of the contract or performance
under the contract,
the questions involved in the dispute shall be subject to a determination that
is final and
conclusive on all parties, made either by:
   a neutral person or entity selected by or in accordance with a procedure
established by the
Mayor of Baltimore City; or
   if the other party does not accept as neutral a person or entity selected
under paragraph (1)
of this subsection, by an arbitration panel composed of the following:
 (i)one member designated by the Mayor of Baltimore City;
   one member designated by the other party to the dispute; and
     (iii) one member selected by mutual agreement of the 2 designated members
from
lists to be submitted by the parties to the dispute.
 (g)  Construction contracts – Decision by City officer subject to judicial
review.
 Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (e) and (f) of this section, with
regard to a
construction contract to which it is a party, Baltimore City may provide or
require that if there is
a dispute between the parties involving $10,000 or more over the terms of the
contract or
performance under the contract, the dispute is subject to a determination of
questions of fact by
an officer or official body of Baltimore City, subject to review on the record
by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Ch. 539, Acts of 1984; Ch. 521, Acts of 2002.)
