                              BALTIMORE CITY CHARTER

REVENUE BONDS AND OBLIGATIONS. (§ II-50)

(a)  Authority to issue.
To borrow money to finance undertakings for the accomplishment of any of the
purposes, objects
and powers of the Mayor and City Council of Baltimore and in connection
therewith to issue
bonds, notes or other obligations (including refunding bonds, notes or other
obligations), all of
which shall be fully negotiable, payable, as to both principal and interest,
solely from and secured
solely by a pledge of
   (1)the revenues from or arising in connection with the property, facilities,
developments and
improvements whose financing is undertaken by issuance of said bonds, notes or
other
obligations,
  (2)the revenues from or arising in connection with any contracts, mortgages or
other
securities purchased or otherwise acquired with the proceeds of those bonds,
notes or
other obligations,
   (3)the contracts, mortgages or other securities purchased or otherwise
acquired with the
proceeds of those bonds, notes or other obligations, or
   (4)any combination of (l), (2), or (3).
Any and all of such bonds, notes or other obligations shall not be general
obligations of the
Mayor and City Council of Baltimore and shall not be a pledge of or involve the
faith and credit
or the taxing power of the Mayor and City Council of Baltimore, and shall not
constitute a debt
of the Mayor and City Council of Baltimore, all within the meaning of Section 7
of Article XI of
the Constitution of Maryland or within the meaning of any other constitutional,
statutory or
charter provision limiting or restricting the sale or issuance of bonds, notes
or other obligations
of the Mayor and City Council of Baltimore.
The obligations authorized by the provisions of this subsection (50), and the
bonds issued and
sold pursuant thereto and their transfer, and the principal and interest payable
thereon (including
any profit made in the sale thereof) shall be and remain exempt from any and all
State, county
and municipal taxation in the State of Maryland.
 (b)  Enabling ordinance.
Any and all such bonds, notes or other obligations shall be issued by the Mayor
and City Council
of Baltimore pursuant to an ordinance of said municipality without the necessity
of submitting
the question of such issuance to the legal voters of Baltimore City for approval
or disapproval.
Any such ordinance may prescribe, among other things but not limited to, the
form, terms,
provisions, manner or method of issuing and selling (including negotiated as
well as competitive
bid sale), and the time or times of issuance, and any and all other details of
any such bonds, notes
or other obligations and the issuance and sale thereof, and may authorize and
empower the
Commissioners of Finance {Board of Finance} by resolution to determine and set
forth any and
all of the things hereinabove mentioned and to do any and all things necessary,
proper or
expedient in connection with the issuance and sale of such notes, bonds or other
obligations
authorized to be issued under the provisions of this subsection (50).
Any moneys from the bonds, notes or other obligations authorized under this
subsection (50)
shall not be expended for projects within the limits of Baltimore County without
the express
consent of the County Executive and County Council of Baltimore County.
 (c)  Trust agreement.
Bonds, notes or other obligations authorized to be issued under the provisions
of this subsection
(50) by an ordinance of the Mayor and City Council of Baltimore may be secured
by a trust
agreement by and between the Mayor and City Council of Baltimore and a corporate
trustee,
which may be any trust company, or bank having trust powers, within or without
the State.
The ordinance may
   (1)approve the form of the agreement,
   (2)authorize the Commissioners of Finance {Board of Finance} to approve the
form of the
trust agreement or
   (3)provide that counterparts of that ordinance may be executed by the
appropriate parties so
as to constitute a trust agreement.
The trust agreement, or the authorizing ordinance, may pledge or assign all or
any part of
   (1)the revenues from or arising in connection with the property, facilities,
developments and
improvements whose financing is undertaken by issuance of the bonds, notes or
other
obligations,
   (2)the revenues from or arising in connection with any contracts, mortgages
or other
securities purchased or otherwise acquired with the proceeds of the bonds, notes
or other
obligations, or
   (3)the contracts, mortgages or other securities purchased or otherwise
acquired with the
proceeds of the bonds, notes or other obligations, or
   (4)any combination of (1), (2), or (3).
Any such trust agreement or ordinance authorizing the issuance of bonds may
contain whatever
provisions for the protection and enforcement of the rights and remedies of the
bondholders as
may be deemed reasonable and proper.  The trust agreement may set forth the
rights and
remedies of the bondholders of the trustee and may restrict the individual right
of action by
bondholders.  In addition to the foregoing, the trust agreement may contain
whatever other
provisions as the Mayor and City Council of Baltimore may deem reasonable and
proper for the
security of the bondholders.
All expenses incurred in carrying out the provisions of the trust agreement or
ordinance may be
treated as part of the cost of the financing of any project or projects in
connection with which the
bonds have been issued.
 (d)  Enforcement of rights by holders or trustee.
Any holder of bonds, notes or other obligations issued under this subsection
(50), or of any of the
coupons appertaining to those bonds, and the trustee, except to the extent the
rights herein given
may be restricted by the trust agreement, either at law or in equity, by suit,
action, mandamus or
other proceedings, may protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of
this State or
granted hereunder or in the ordinance authorizing the issuance of those bonds,
notes or other
obligations or under the trust agreement, and may enforce and compel the
performance of all
duties required by this subsection (50) or in the ordinance authorizing the
issuance of those
bonds, notes or other obligations or by the trust agreement to be performed by
the Mayor and
City Council of Baltimore or by any officer thereof.
 (e)  Convention Center facilities.
  (1)Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, bonds, notes or other
obligations
(including refunding bonds, notes or other obligations) issued under this
section to finance or
refinance the acquisition, demolition, construction, renovation, expansion,
improvement,
furnishing or equipping of convention center facilities may be payable, as to
both principal
and interest, from revenues and receipts from the hotel room tax, provided that
such revenues
and receipts may not be irrevocably pledged to the payment of such principal and
interest and
the obligation to pay such principal and interest from such revenues and
receipts shall be
subject to annual appropriation by the Mayor and City Council of Baltimore.
The trust agreement or the authorizing ordinance may pledge or assign:
    (i)all or any part of such revenues and receipts, but only to the extent
such revenues and
receipts are appropriated by the Mayor and City Council of Baltimore to the
payment
of such principal and interest; and
    (ii)any fund into which all or any part of such revenues and receipts are
deposited after
such revenues and receipts are appropriated by the Mayor and City Council of
Baltimore to the payment of such principal and interest.
  (2)As used in this subsection, “convention center facilities” means:
    (i)convention centers, trade show facilities, meeting halls, or other
structures in
Baltimore City used for the holding of conventions, trade shows, meetings,
displays,
or similar events, including, without limitation, the Baltimore City Convention
Center;
    (ii)offices, parking lots, garages, access roads, hotels, restaurants,
railroad sidings, and
any other property, structures, furnishings or equipment functionally related to
the
facilities described in subparagraph (i) of this paragraph; and
    (iii) other facilities and properties used or useful or having present
capacity for future use
as, or in connection with, convention center facilities, including, without
limitation:
1.      land, buildings, structures, machinery, equipment and all properties and
rights
therein and appurtenances thereof, and rights-of-way, franchises, easements,
and other interests in land;
2.      all land and facilities that are functionally related to a convention
center
facility; and
3.      all patents, licenses and other rights necessary or useful in the
construction or
operation of a convention center facility.
  (3)As used in this subsection, “hotel room tax” means the hotel room tax
levied by the Mayor
and City Council of Baltimore pursuant to Article 28, Sections 37 through 42,
inclusive, of
the Baltimore City Code, as amended, replaced, or supplemented from time to
time.
(Ch. 509, Acts of 1972; Ch. 657, Acts of 1974; Ch. 400, Acts of 1993.)
