                              BALTIMORE CITY CHARTER

NONRESIDENT OWNERS, NOTICE OF CODE VIOLATION AND APPOINTMENT OF RECEIVER. (§
II-54)

(a)  Application for receiver.
Where real property in the City of Baltimore is owned by a nonresident of the
State, and the
nonresident owner has received notice of violation of the City’s building or
housing codes and
the violation is not corrected within the time required, the City of Baltimore
may apply to any
equity court in Baltimore for the appointment of a receiver.
 (b)  Prior notice.
Proper notice to nonresident owners shall consist of notice sent by certified
mail, return receipt
requested, to the last known address of the nonresident owner; or, if the above
method cannot be
accomplished, then by publication once a week for a period of three consecutive
weeks in a daily
newspaper of substantial circulation published in Baltimore of a notice citing
the nature of the
violation and stating that in the event the notice is not complied with within
the time period for
correction, the City of Baltimore may apply to an equity court in Baltimore City
for the
appointment of a receiver.
 (c)  Powers and duties of receiver.
The receiver appointed is responsible for correcting the code violations,
continuing maintenance
of the property, collecting any rents or other income from the property and
applying the rent or
other income to all expenditures made for these purposes.
The receiver may let the property to a tenant.
Any expenditures so made, after crediting rent or other income, shall be a lien
against the
property pursuant to Article II, §&nbsp;(19) of this Charter, and any excess
funds received shall be held
for the benefit of the owners to be remitted according to law.
 (d)  Authority supplemental.
This section may not be construed to limit the authority of the Mayor and City
Council to seek
the appointment of a receiver in appropriate code violation cases when
conditions at the real
property constitute a nuisance or are otherwise a substantial threat to health
and safety.
(Ch. 597, Acts of 1975; Ch. 467, Acts of 1993.)
