                              BALTIMORE CITY CHARTER

“CHILD FIRST” AUTHORITY. (§ II-64)

(a)  In general.
To establish by ordinance an authority known as “Child First” that uses
existing facilities for the
purpose of providing recreational, cultural, and other enrichment programs for
children.
 (b)  Nature of Authority.
The Authority established under this section:
   (1)is an independent unit of the Baltimore City government;
   (2)shall have those powers and duties consistent with the purposes of the
Authority,
delegated through the ordinance that the City itself could otherwise exercise;
and
   (3)is exempt from those laws or procedures that would otherwise apply to any
unit of the
Baltimore City government to the extent exempted by the ordinance.
 (c)  Powers of Authority.
The Authority established under this section:
   (1)shall have a management board and executive director as prescribed in the
ordinance
adopted under this section;
   (2)may sue or be sued;
   (3)may acquire, lease, or hold property for the purposes of the Authority;
   (4)may incur limited obligation debt that shall be an obligation solely of
the Authority if
authorized by the ordinance;
   (5)may employ staff or contract for any services necessary to carry out the
purposes of the
Authority;
   (6)may adopt bylaws and regulations concerning the operation of the
Authority;
   (7)may establish fees necessary for the operation of the Authority;
   (8)may make contracts of any kind and execute any instrument necessary to
carry out the
purposes of the Authority;
   (9)may accept from any public or private entity grants or other revenue
necessary to carry
out the purposes of the Authority; and
   (10) shall have any additional powers granted under and subject to the
ordinance enacted
under this section.
 (d)  City funding and services.
The Mayor and the City Council are authorized to provide funding for the
Authority and any
services through the City government that are deemed appropriate to assist the
Authority in its
operations.
(Ch. 642, Acts of 1996.)
