                              BALTIMORE CITY CHARTER

INVESTMENT IN OUR YOUTH (IO-YOUTH) PILOT PROGRAM. (§ II-67)

Editor’s Note:  Chapter 655, Acts of 2012, authorized this pilot program,
effective for a 3-year
period from October 1, 2012, through September 30, 2015. 
 (a)  Definitions.
  (1)  In general.
In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.
  (2)  Employer.
   (i)  General.
“Employer” has the meaning stated in §&nbsp;3401 of the internal revenue
code.
   (ii)  Inclusions.
“Employer” includes:
     1.  the State and its units;
     2.  a county and its units; and
     3.  a municipal government in the State.
  (3)  Nonprofit organization.
“Nonprofit organization” means an organization that is exempt from taxation
under §&nbsp;501 of
the Internal Revenue 10 Code.
  (4)  Program.
“Program” means the Investment in Our Youth (IO–YOUth) pilot program.
  (5)  Summer.
“Summer” means the period from June 1 to September 30, inclusive, of each
year.
 (b)  Establishment of Program. 
  (1)The Mayor and City Council of Baltimore may establish an Investment in Our
Youth
(IO–YOUth) Pilot Program.
  (2)The program shall be established as a qualified organization eligible to
receive
tax–deductible charitable contributions under §&nbsp;170(c) of the Internal
Revenue Code.
  (3)The purpose of the Program is to provide summer jobs for youths who are at
least 14 years
old and not more than 18 years old.
  (4)The Program shall provide summer jobs for youths by:
    (i)hiring youths to work during the summer for the City of Baltimore; or
    (ii)providing grants to nonprofit organizations that will provide summer
jobs for youths.
(5)The Mayor and City Council of Baltimore shall establish a committee to carry
out the
Program.
  (6)The Mayor and City Council of Baltimore shall establish a procedure for the
disposition of
any funds remaining in the Program in the event that the Program is terminated.
  (7)To be eligible for a grant from the Program, a nonprofit organization
shall:
    (i)operate within the City of Baltimore; and
    (ii) meet any other requirement established under the Program.
  (8)A nonprofit organization that receives a grant from the Program may not use
the grant to:
    (i)employ youths who do not reside in the City of Baltimore; or
    (iii) provide jobs at sites that are located outside of the City of
Baltimore. 
 (c)  Tax-deductible contributions.
  (1)  (i)Nothing in this paragraph may be construed to require an employer to
make a deduction
from the wage of an employee.
   (ii)On written request of an employee, an employer may make a deduction from
the wage of
an employee for the benefit of the Program.
   (iii) The written request provided by an employee under subparagraph (ii) of
this paragraph
shall include the amount of the deduction.
  (2)(i)An employer shall:
     1.distribute quarterly to the City of Baltimore any funds deducted by the
employer
from the wage of an employee; and
     2.report quarterly to the City of Baltimore the name, address, and other
information
provided by the employee under subsection (c)(1) of this section.
   (ii)The amount of funds distributed to the City of Baltimore under
subparagraph (i) of this
paragraph shall equal the amount of funds deducted from the wages of employees
who
have submitted a written request as provided in subsection (c)(1) of this
section.
  (3)(i)Except as provided in subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the Mayor and
City Council of
Baltimore shall pay the funds into the special fund established under subsection
(d) of this
section.
   (ii)If the Program has ended, the Mayor and City Council of Baltimore shall
follow the
procedure for the disposition of funds remaining in the Program as provided
under
subsection (a)(6) of this section.
  (4)The City of Baltimore may receive a direct donation from a person for the
benefit of the
Program.
  (5)(i)The City of Baltimore shall provide a receipt to:
     1.each employee whose information was  reported to the City of Baltimore by
the
employer under paragraph (2) of this subsection; and
     2.each person from which the City of Baltimore receives a direct donation
under
paragraph (4) of this subsection.
   (ii)A receipt provided by the City of Baltimore under subparagraph (i) of
this paragraph shall
include a statement that the amount of the deduction from the employee’s wages
or the
amount of the donation is tax-deductible under §&nbsp;170(c) of the Internal
Revenue Code.
 (d)  Special fund.
  (1)The Mayor and City Council of Baltimore shall establish a special fund to
be used to fund the
Program.
  (2)The Program shall be funded by:
    (i)funds distributed to the City of Baltimore under subsection (c) of this
section;
    (ii)funds appropriated to the Program by the Mayor and City Council of
Baltimore; and
    (iii) donations received by the City of Baltimore to be used for the
Program.
  (3)Funds in the special fund may be used only for funding the Program.
(Ch.  655, Acts of 2012.)
