                              BALTIMORE CITY CHARTER

DOWNTOWN COMMERCIAL DISTRICT MANAGEMENT AUTHORITY. (§ II-61)

(a)  Establishment, boundaries, etc.
  (1)To establish a Downtown Commercial District Management Authority within the
City of
Baltimore to do any or all of the following: promote or market the district;
provide
supplementary security and maintenance services; and provide amenities in public
areas.
  (2)(i)To specify and modify the boundaries of the district but in no event
outside the bounds of
lines as follows:
1.     on the north, a line beginning at the Jones Falls Expressway, going west
on Centre
Street to Park Avenue, then north on Park Avenue to Read Street, then northwest
on Read Street to Howard Street, then north on Howard Street to Martin Luther
King Boulevard, then southwest on Martin Luther King Boulevard to Eutaw
Street, then south on Eutaw Street to Franklin Street, then west to Greene
Street;
2. on the west, Greene Street and Russell Street;
3.     on the south, a line running generally westerly from Russell Street and
Lee Street
to Lee Street and Light Street, and then following Light Street to Key Highway,
and then following Key Highway to Lawrence Street; and
4.     on the east, the Jones Falls Expressway and President Street.
   (ii)Notwithstanding subparagraph (i) of this paragraph, the district may
include properties
binding on either side of the boundaries authorized under this subsection.
  (3)To specify the powers and functions which may be exercised and conducted by
the Authority
and the amount of benefit assessment charges which may be imposed on properties
in the
district.
  (4)To specify the duration of the Authority.
  (5)To provide for the imposition and collection of the taxes or charges, and
for disbursement of
the revenue therefrom to the Authority.  The financial plan of the Authority,
including its
annual budget and its tax and fee schedule, shall be subject to approval by the
Board of
Estimates.  Taxes and charges imposed under this paragraph may not exceed those
proposed
by the Authority.
  (6)To determine the organization and method of initial appointment of board
members of the
Authority, the majority of the members of the board shall be owners or
representatives of
owners of properties in the district that are subject to taxes or charges under
this section.
 (b)  Powers of Authority.
As provided by ordinance, the Authority may have the power:
   (1)to be a special tax district or special benefits assessment district and
to conduct the
functions which are assigned to it by the City.
   (2)to acquire, hold and use property necessary to achieve its purposes.
   (3)to make contracts; to sue and be sued.
   (4)to accept grants.
   (5)to borrow for purposes consistent with the public purposes of the
Authority.
   (6)to propose in its annual budget the taxes or charges on properties within
the district.  No
such amounts shall be levied against residential property with fewer than four
dwelling
units.  Property which is exempt under State law from ordinary property taxes
shall be
exempt from assessments by the district.  Before adopting its proposed budget
and before
making its recommendation to the City, the Authority shall hold a public hearing
on taxes
or charges proposed for the district.  The Authority shall publish notice of the
hearing in a
newspaper of general circulation in Baltimore City at least once a week for
three
consecutive weeks before the hearing.
   (7)to do all things necessary or convenient to carry out its powers.
   (8)to adopt, amend and modify by-laws, all of which shall be subject to the
approval of the
Board of Estimates.
   (9)to establish and elect officers and provide for their terms and duties.
   (10) to contract for and purchase goods and services, not subject to the City
requirements
regarding wage scales, competitive bidding or other local procurement laws;
however the
Authority shall be subject to City ordinances and City policy requiring
achievement of
goals regarding minority and women’s business enterprises.
 (c)  Limitations.
The Authority is subject to the following limitations:
   (1)It is not permitted to exercise any police or general powers other than
those authorized by
State law and City ordinance.
   (2)It may not pledge the full faith or credit of the City.
   (3)It cannot extend its life and it cannot modify its boundaries without City
Council
approval.
   (4)It cannot impose taxes, fees or assessments in excess of those approved by
the Board of
Estimates.
   (5)It cannot exercise the power of eminent domain.
   (6)Except as otherwise authorized by law, it cannot engage in competition
with the private
sector.
   (7)Any fees, charges or taxes collected pursuant to this section shall be
used only for the
purposes authorized under this section and may not revert to the General Fund of
the
City.
   (8)It may not be an agency of the City of Baltimore or the State of Maryland.
   (9)Employees of the Authority shall reside in the City of Baltimore.
   (10)  Subject to the approval of the Board of Estimates, it shall provide an
adjustment of any
taxes and charges imposed on a specific property pursuant to this section based
on the
current rate of occupancy of the property.
 (d)  Considerations.
In adopting an ordinance, the City Council shall give consideration to the views
of the property
owners, the retail merchants, the hotels and motels, the property tenants, and
the other members
of the business community within the district.
 (e)  Periodic review.
The Mayor and City Council shall review the effectiveness and desirability of
continuing the
existence of any district established under this section every 5 years from the
enactment of the
ordinance.
 (f)  Approval by property owners.
The Mayor and City Council shall establish a fair and equitable process for the
approval and
adoption of an ordinance, under this section, by the property owners who are
subject to taxes or
charges in the district.
(Ch. 604, Acts of 1992.)
