                              BALTIMORE CITY CHARTER

APPROVAL OR VETO OF LEGISLATION. (§ IV-5)

(a)  Delivery to Mayor; approval.
All ordinances or resolutions duly passed by the City Council, after being
properly certified by
the President of the City Council as having been so passed, shall be delivered
by the Clerk of the
Council to the Mayor for approval.  The date of delivery shall be noted on the
ordinances or
resolutions and, when approved by the Mayor, they shall become ordinances or
resolutions of the
City.
 (b)  Veto; return to Council.
If the Mayor does not approve of an ordinance or resolution passed by the City
Council, the
Mayor shall return it with written objections to the City Council within three
actual regular
meetings, not more than one of which shall occur in any one calendar week, of
the City Council
after the delivery of the ordinance or resolution to the Mayor.
Upon receipt, the Mayor’s objections shall be read forthwith to the Council
and entered on its
Journal.  After five calendar days, and within twenty calendar days after the
ordinance or
resolution shall have been returned by the Mayor and received by the Council,
the Council shall
proceed to reconsider and vote upon it.
If the ordinance or resolution, after reconsideration, shall be again passed by
the City Council by
a vote of three-fourths of its members, it shall become an ordinance or
resolution of the City.  In
such cases, after the reconsideration, the votes on the question of the passage
of the ordinance or
resolution over the veto of the Mayor shall be determined by yeas and nays, and
the names of the
persons voting for and against passage of the ordinance or resolution over the
veto of the Mayor
shall be entered on the Journal of the City Council.
 (c)  No action by Mayor.
If an ordinance or resolution duly passed by the City Council shall not be
returned by the Mayor
to the City Council within three actual regular meetings, no more than one of
which shall occur
in any one calendar week, after it shall have been delivered to the Mayor, it
shall become an
ordinance or resolution of the City in the same manner as if the Mayor had
approved it, unless
the City Council by an adjournment sine die, or for a period exceeding one
month, shall prevent
its return, in which case it shall not be law.
 (d)  Items of appropriation.
If an ordinance or resolution duly passed by the City Council shall embrace
different items of
appropriation, the Mayor may approve the provisions thereof relating to one or
more items of
appropriation and disapprove the others, and in such case those the Mayor shall
approve shall
become effective and those which the Mayor shall not approve shall be
reconsidered by the City
Council, and shall become effective if again passed over the veto of the Mayor
by the vote as
above prescribed for the passage over the veto of the Mayor of entire ordinances
or resolutions.
The procedures governing the Mayor’s veto of an item of appropriation and the
Council’s
reconsideration of that item shall be the same as those in this section that
govern the passage,
veto, reconsideration and override of ordinances and resolutions.
