                              BALTIMORE CITY CHARTER

DEPARTMENT OF REAL ESTATE – DUTIES. (§ V-5)

The Department of Real Estate shall have the following responsibilities in all
matters relating to the
acquisition, sale, lease, exchange or other disposition of real property of the
City; provided, however,
that nothing in this section shall affect the exercise by the City by ordinance
of the powers granted to
it in subsection (15) of Article II, or by the Mayor of the powers provided by
Section 4(c) of Article
IV relating to economic development:
 (a)  Negotiation of acquisitions.
Subject to any limitation on this power elsewhere in the Charter, any purchase
(other than by
condemnation) of real property or an interest therein by the City shall (unless
and to the extent
otherwise provided by the Board of Estimates) be negotiated and made on its
behalf by the
Department of Real Estate in such a manner as the Board of Estimates shall from
time to time
authorize and instruct.
 (b)  Disposition of City property.
The Department shall (unless and to the extent otherwise provided by the Board
of Estimates)
arrange for the disposition of any building or parcel of land (or any other real
property) no longer
needed by the City for public use.
Any such disposition shall be authorized by ordinance, shall be approved by the
Board of
Estimates with the approval entered in its minutes, and shall be made at public
sale unless a
private sale or other manner of disposition shall be expressly authorized by the
Board of
Estimates and entered in its minutes.  The instrument of conveyance of any
building or parcel of
land (or any other real property) whose disposition has been so authorized and
approved shall be
executed on behalf of the City by the Comptroller or Deputy Comptroller and
attested to by the
Director of Finance or the Deputy Director of Finance.
 (c)  Leasing City property.
The Department is authorized to lease any building or parcel of land (or any
other real property)
not needed by the City for public purposes on a month to month basis, unless
otherwise provided
by ordinance.  It is also authorized to lease such property for fixed terms
provided such leases are
first approved by the Board of Estimates.
 (d)  Inventory of City property.
The Comptroller, working in conjunction with the heads of other affected
municipal agencies,
shall maintain a public inventory of the City’s properties.
