                              BALTIMORE CITY CHARTER

SALARIES. (§ VI-10)

(a)  In-term increases or decreases — in general.
(1)In preparing the Ordinance of Estimates, the Board of Estimates may increase
or decrease the
salaries of all municipal officers, except:
    (i)the elected officials subject to Article VII, §§&nbsp;117 through 125
of this Charter; and
    (ii)the appointed municipal officers who serve as  members of the Board of
Estimates,
  (2)If the salary of an appointed municipal officer is so increased or
decreased, it may not again
be increased or decreased, as the case may be, during that officer’s term.
 (b)  In-term increases or decreases — Board members.
(1)The Mayor and City Council may, by ordinance, increase or decrease the
salaries of the
appointed municipal officers who serve as members of the Board of Estimates.
  (2)If the salary of an appointed municipal officer on the Board is so
increased or decreased, it
may not again be increased or decreased, as the case may be, during that
officer’s term.
 (c)  Employment contingent on appropriation.
No person shall be appointed or employed as a paid municipal officer or employee
unless an
appropriation to cover that person’s compensation is included in the Ordinance
of Estimates;
provided, however, that this provision shall not apply to:
   (1)appointments or employments approved by resolution of the Board of
Estimates, where
funds are available for payment of the designated compensation; and
   (2)persons whose appointment or employment is to be made and whose
compensation is to
be fixed by the Board of School Commissioners as provided in Section 63 of
Article VII.
 (d)  Increases beyond Ordinance of Estimates.
Except in cases of promotion, the salary or compensation of no officer or
employee of the City
shall be increased beyond that set forth in the materials accompanying the
proposed Ordinance of
Estimates unless the increase be approved by the Board of Estimates upon the
recommendation
of the head of the agency concerned, and funds therefor are available in the
appropriation allotted
in the Ordinance of Estimates to the agency in question;
provided, however, that the Board of Estimates may adopt rules and regulations
governing
increments to be granted to employees whose classifications call for an annual
increment until
the maximum of such classification is reached;
provided, further, that nothing in this provision shall affect the power
conferred by Section 63 of
Article VII upon the Board of School Commissioners.
 (e)  Payment intervals.
The salaries of all municipal officers and employees, whether or not fixed by
the Charter, shall be
paid at such intervals, but not less frequently than semi-monthly, as the Board
of Estimates may
determine from time to time.
(Res. 05-009, ratified Nov. 7, 2006.)
