                              BALTIMORE CITY CHARTER

DEFICIENCIES; SUPPLEMENTARY APPROPRIATIONS. (§ VI-8)

(a)  Deficiencies.
No temporary loan shall be authorized or made to pay any deficiency arising from
a failure to
realize sufficient income from all sources to meet the amounts provided in the
Ordinance of
Estimates, but the City may temporarily borrow money for its use in anticipation
of the receipts
of taxes levied for any year.  In case of any such deficiency the Board of
Estimates shall effect
reductions (which need not be pro rata) in appropriations other than those for
the payment of the
principal and interest of the City debt and such amounts as are fixed by law and
contained in the
Ordinance of Estimates, except to the extent that the City Council shall, upon
the
recommendation of the Board of Estimates, enact an ordinance which shall supply
revenues to
meet all or any part of such deficiency.  No emergency loan shall be made except
in accordance
with the provisions of Article XI of the Constitution of Maryland.
 (b)  Supplementary appropriations — when authorized.
Except as provided herein, the Ordinance of Estimates shall include all the
moneys to be
appropriated by the City for all purposes for the fiscal year for which the
ordinance is applicable.
Additional appropriations shall be permitted during the fiscal year only in the
following
circumstances and under the following conditions:
   (1)  Excess revenues.
Revenues from any source other than the full rate property tax and other taxes
imposed
under the authority of Article II, in excess of or in addition to those relied
upon by the
Board of Estimates in determining the tax levy required to balance the budget,
may be
made available for expenditure by the municipal agency responsible for the
production of
such revenues by a supplementary appropriation ordinance recommended to the City
Council by the Board of Estimates, duly passed by the City Council by a majority
vote of
its members and approved by the Mayor.
   (2)  Unanticipated grants.
Grants from private or governmental sources which could not be expected with
reasonable certainty at the time of the formulation of the proposed Ordinance of
Estimates may be made available to the appropriate municipal agency for
expenditure by
a supplementary appropriation ordinance recommended to the City Council by the
Board
of Estimates, duly passed by the City Council by a majority vote of its members
and
approved by the Mayor.
   (3)  Material changes; new programs.
Further appropriations for programs included in the proposed Ordinance of
Estimates
made necessary by a material change in circumstances, or additional
appropriations for
new programs which could not reasonably be anticipated at the time of the
formulation of
the proposed Ordinance of Estimates may be made available to the appropriate
municipal
agency for expenditure by a supplementary appropriation ordinance recommended to
the
City Council by the Board of Estimates, duly passed by the City Council by a
vote of
three-fourths of its members and approved by the Mayor.
 (c)  Supplementary appropriations — requisites of ordinance.
Every such further or additional appropriation shall be embodied in a separate
ordinance limited
to a single program, purpose, activity or project therein stated, and each such
supplementary
appropriation ordinance shall also, anything contained in the Charter to the
contrary
notwithstanding, provide the revenue necessary to pay the appropriation by a
source, other than
the full rate property tax, imposed under the authority of Article II.  The
revenue shall be levied
and collected as directed in the ordinance.  The estimate of the revenues to be
derived from any
source proposed in a supplementary appropriation ordinance shall be made by the
Board of
Estimates.
