                              BALTIMORE CITY CHARTER

AGENCY AUDITS. (§ VII-4.5)

(a)  Definitions.
(1) General.
In this section, the following terms have the meanings indicated.
(2)  Audit.
 (i)“Audit” means an audit undertaken in accordance with generally accepted
government
auditing standards and federal and state law.
 (ii)“Audit” includes both: 
     (A) a financial audit of an agency’s financial transactions, including
all accounts,
revenues, and receipts; and 
     (B) a performance audit that assesses an agency’s practices to determine
whether the
agency is operating economically and efficiently and whether corrective actions
for improving its performance are appropriate.
(3)  Principal agency.
   “Principal agency” means any of the following executive departments:
(i)Department of Finance.
(ii)  Department of Law.
(iii) Department of Public Works.
(iv) Fire Department.
(v)Police Department.
(vi) Department of Housing and Community Development.
    (vii) Baltimore Development Corporation.
(viii) Department of Recreation and Parks.
(ix) Department of Transportation.
(x) Department of General Services.
(xi) Department of Planning.
(xii) Department of Human Resources.
(xiii) Mayor’s Office of Information Technology.
 (b) Quadrennial audit required.
At least once during every 4-year term of the Mayor and City Council, each
principal agency
shall arrange for an audit of its operations for the preceding 4 fiscal years.
 (c) By whom to be conducted.
The audit shall be conducted by:
   (1)the City Auditor; or
 (2)an independent certified public accountant or firm of certified public
accountants.
 (d) Costs of audit.
In each fiscal year preceding the fiscal year in which an audit is to be
conducted under this
section, the principal agency shall include the costs of the audit in the
estimates that it submits
for the next year’s Ordinance of Estimates. 
 (e) Reports.
Reports of audits conducted under this subtitle shall be submitted to:
   (1)the Mayor;
   (2)the City Comptroller; and
  (3) the President of the City Council.
(Res. 12-009, ratified Nov. 6, 2012.)
Department of Finance
