                              BALTIMORE CITY CHARTER

CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION: DISCHARGES, ETC.; REDUCTIONS IN FORCE. (§ VII-100)

(a)  Discharges, suspensions, reductions in pay or position.
(1)No person may be discharged from the Civil Service, reduced in pay or
position, or
suspended because of political opinions or affiliations, or for refusing to
contribute to any
political fund or refusing to render any political service.  But nothing in this
Charter relating
to the Civil Service forbids the discharge, reduction in pay or position, or
suspension of an
officer or employee for any just cause.
  (2)Whenever a non-probationary employee is discharged, reduced in pay or
position, or
suspended for more than 30 days, the appointing officer shall furnish a copy of
the order of
discharge, reduction, or suspension, together with a statement of the reasons
for the action, to
the employee and to the Commission.
  (3)The employee may contest the action by:
    (i)requesting a hearing before the Commission; or
    (ii)initiating a grievance pursuant to an applicable grievance and
arbitration procedure, if
any, contained in an applicable collective bargaining agreement.
  (4)Once an employee has chosen to contest an action by electing one of the
procedures specified
in paragraph (3) of this subsection, the employee is bound by that election and
may not
subsequently choose to follow a different procedure.
(5)In all cases, except one in which an employee elects to contest an action
through a grievance
and arbitration procedure under paragraph (3)(ii) of this subsection, the
Commission may,
and on the written request of the employee, the Commission shall investigate the
disciplinary
action.  If the Commission finds that the intent and spirit of the provisions of
this Charter
have been violated in the discharge, reduction, or suspension, it shall report
its findings to the
Mayor; and the appointing officer shall take whatever action the Commission
directs to
rectify the violation.
Editor’s Note:  Section 2 of Resolution 06-017 states:
[T]his amendment applies only to grievance and arbitration procedures that,
after the
effective date of this amendment, have been adopted as part of a collective
bargaining
agreement to apply to employees who have been discharged, reduced in pay or
position,
or suspended for more than 30 days.
 (b)  Reductions in force — reemployment preference.
Each person discharged for the purpose of reducing the force and without fault
shall receive a
certificate so stating and all persons so discharged shall be placed on the
eligible list in the order
of the length of their service in their classifications at the time of being
laid off and in other
classifications the civil service in which they may have served previously.  The
weight to be
given to length of service in their last classification and in prior
classifications shall be
determined in accordance with the rules of the Commission.  Persons so
discharged shall have
preference in the order of their seniority over others on the eligible list,
subject, however, to the
terms of the next subsection and to any priority to which any person may be
entitled by virtue of
any preference to veterans or their dependents.
 (c)  Reductions in force — seasonal and part-time employees.
In the case of classes of seasonal or part-time employees the Commission, after
notice and a
public hearing, may adopt rules excluding them from, or limiting the application
to them of, the
preference contained in the preceding subsection.
(Res. 06-017, ratified Nov. 7, 2006.)
