                              BALTIMORE CITY CHARTER

DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION: BOARD OF SCHOOL COMMISSIONERS – POWERS AND DUTIES.
(§ VII-61)

(a)  Educational policies; budget.
The Board shall determine educational policy for the Department, provide forums
at which
residents of Baltimore City can express their views about educational policy and
decision
making, submit the annual budget for the Department of Education, and exercise
the other
powers and perform the other duties prescribed by law.
 (b)  Superintendent.
Within 120 days of a vacancy in the position of Superintendent of Public
Instruction, the Board,
by a majority vote of its members, shall provide to the Mayor a list of
candidates for the position.
The Mayor shall select the Superintendent from the list.  If the Board fails to
provide a list within
the 120 day period, the Mayor may select the Superintendent in the Mayor’s
discretion.
The Superintendent must be confirmed by the City Council pursuant to Article IV,
Section 6(a).
The Mayor, after consulting with the Board, may suspend, demote or dismiss the
Superintendent
at pleasure.
 (c)  Assistant Superintendents.
Upon nomination by the Superintendent, the Board may appoint such Assistant
Superintendents
as it shall deem necessary and advisable.  Upon recommendation of the
Superintendent, the
Board, at pleasure, may suspend, demote or dismiss an Assistant Superintendent.
 (d)  Other professional employees.
The Board shall confirm or reject all nominations of principals, teachers,
supervisors, directors,
and other professional employees made to it by the Superintendent in accordance
with the rules
of the Board.
Professional employees include teachers, personnel concerned with the
supervision,
administration, and direction of the educational program and related services,
other employees
whose positions require a knowledge of and participation in the educational
program, and any
other employee considered a professional employee under State law.
The Board shall not confirm the appointment of any teacher whose name does not
appear upon a
graded list hereinafter provided for.
Any principal, teacher or other professional employee, below the rank of
Assistant
Superintendent, may be suspended, demoted or dismissed only for the reasons, and
pursuant to
the procedures, prescribed by State law.
 (e)  Other employees.
All secretaries, clerks and employees, other than professional employees, shall
be appointed and
may be suspended, demoted or dismissed by the Superintendent in accordance with
the
provisions of the Charter relating to the Civil Service.
 (f)  Site selection, school buildings, etc.
(1)Subject to the provisions of this Charter relating to the Planning
Commission, the Board has
the authority to select sites.
  (2)All plans and specifications for school buildings, including changes in
plans and
specifications, shall be prepared under the direction of and approved by the
Board.  However,
the plans and specifications shall also be submitted to the Director of General
Services for the
Director’s approval.
  (3)The Board also has the authority to maintain and repair all school
buildings.
(Res. 08-003, ratified November 4, 2008.)
 (g)  Education supplies and equipment.
The Board shall determine the specifications for all educational supplies and
equipment used by
the Department, and all purchases for the Department shall be made by the
Department of
Finance in accordance with the procedure provided in Article VI; provided,
however, that all
tests of samples and analyses of bids for educational supplies shall be made by
the Department of
Education and a report thereon made by it to the Department of Finance.
 (h)  Transportation.
The Board shall have charge of the transportation of pupils, the maintenance and
operation of the
vehicles and equipment used for such purposes and the care, storage and
distribution of supplies
and equipment used by the Department of Education.
