                              BALTIMORE CITY CHARTER

DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING: COMMISSION – POWERS AND DUTIES. (§ VII-72)

The Planning Commission:
  (a)shall adopt rules and regulations to exercise the powers and perform the
duties of the
Department.
  (b)shall meet regularly as the Commission may determine, and hold special
meetings at the call
of the President or upon the written request of three members.
  (c)shall hold hearings at the Commission’s discretion or upon the written
request of any member
of the City Council.
  (d)may, at its hearings, administer oaths and compel the attendance of
witnesses.
  (e)shall keep minutes of its proceedings and maintain a public record of its
decisions, showing
the vote of each member.
  (f)shall investigate and study land uses, the development of subdivisions of
land, and zoning
within the City of Baltimore.
  (g)shall adopt and revise a master plan for the proposed physical development
of Baltimore
City.
  (h)before adopting or revising the master plan, shall hold a public hearing,
reasonable notice of
which shall be given in the neighborhood of the properties affected and by
publication in a
newspaper of general circulation in Baltimore City.
  (i)shall consider, and may approve, if they are consistent with the master
plan, among other
things:
1.    development plans
2.    an enterprise or public or private improvement that requires a permit
3.    urban renewal plans
4.    plans for the subdivision and consolidation
of public and private parcels of land.
  (j)shall submit for the consideration of the Board of Estimates a recommended
capital budget
for inclusion in the Ordinance of Estimates, a recommended long-range capital
improvement
program, and a report explaining both, all of which shall be made public.
  (k)shall issue a report and recommendation, which shall state the nature of
the investigation
made by the Commission, whether hearings were held thereon, reasons for the
recommendation, and the number of members voting for or against it:
1.    on every proposed amendment to the Baltimore City Zoning Ordinance
referred to it;
and
2.    on the creation of, and proposed amendments to,
an urban renewal plan.
  (l)may report and submit to the City Council amendments to the Baltimore City
Zoning
Ordinance.  Any such amendment shall be submitted only by resolution, adopted by
the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of the entire membership of the Commission.
  (m) shall have reasonable access, through its agents and employees, to the
plats and records of all
other municipal agencies of the City and, subject to the approval of the Board
of Estimates,
may require the assistance of any other municipal agency of the City.
  (n)may take such other actions, subject to the provisions of this Charter and
law, that it deems
necessary and appropriate to assure that development is well-planned,
efficiently coordinated
by the City, and consistent with the health, order, security, safety and morals
of the
inhabitants of Baltimore City, as well as the aesthetic and natural environment
of the City.
