                              BALTIMORE CITY CHARTER

CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION: DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN RESOURCES – POWERS AND DUTIES.
(§ VII-97)

The Department:
  (a)shall propose and submit to the Commission for final approval rules and
regulations,
including rules and regulations governing probationary status, temporary and
emergency
appointments, classifications, reclassifications, examinations, promotions,
demotions,
transfers, reinstatements, discharges, and other discipline of employees.
  (b)shall propose and submit to the Commission for final approval the different
classifications
that are used by the Department.  Such classifications shall assure that City
employees are
hired and promoted based on ability, efficiency, character, and industry
(“merit”); and shall
encourage the recruitment, training and supervision of qualified employees. 
Classifications
may be grouped into categories, which may include a general category for
employees who are
hired or promoted based, in part, on the results of competitive or
non-competitive
examinations; a labor category for unskilled or skilled laborers; and other
categories that the
Commission may deem to be appropriate.
  (c)subject to the exceptions in Section 99, shall assign to a classification
each position in the
City to which appointments are made.  The Department shall not assign a position
outside of
the Civil Service without the approval of the Civil Service Commission.  All the
classified
positions shall constitute the Civil Service, and appointments to positions in
the Civil Service
shall be made according to the rules of the Commission.
  (d)shall provide for competitive examinations, non-competitive examinations,
and other
evaluative measures to assure that City employees are hired based on merit.
  (e)shall provide for competitive examinations, non-competitive examinations,
and other
evaluative measures, including conduct in office, demonstrated capacity, and
seniority, to
assure that City employees are promoted based on merit.
  (f)shall promptly certify to appointing officers lists of candidates eligible
for employment
within each classification.  The Commission, by rule:
1.    shall determine when certifications shall include, in rank order, those
persons who
have performed best on competitive examinations and when certifications should
include persons whose fitness has been otherwise established;
2.    shall determine when and how the appointing officer shall fill a vacancy
or new
position from the certifications; and
3.    may provide that honorably discharged veterans of war, including disabled
veterans,
may receive special credits for their service to the United States in
determining the
qualifications and relative standing of applicants for City positions.
  (g)shall establish a period of probation not exceeding one year during which
the appointing
officer may remove the employee at pleasure.
  (h)shall propose to the Board of Estimates appropriate salaries and wages for
each classification.
  (i)shall, in conjunction with the employing department, recruit, train and
counsel Civil Service
members.
  (j)may appoint such employees as provided in the Ordinance of Estimates.
  (k)shall administer employee benefits and pre-employment screening programs as
directed by
the Board of Estimates.
