                              BALTIMORE CITY CHARTER

MINOR PRIVILEGES. (§ VIII-9)

(a)  Temporary minor privilege charges.
Beginning with the year 1935, the amount of the lien of the City for charges for
temporary minor
privileges, as hereinafter defined, shall be limited to the amount of the charge
therefor for the last
calendar year for which made.  The person to whom such temporary minor privilege
is granted
shall be personally liable to the City for the amount of such charges.  If any
such charge is not
paid by April 1st of the year succeeding that in respect of which the charge was
made, the
Department of Finance shall record the lien for such previous year’s charge in
the tax lien record,
where it shall continue to be a lien, until paid, upon the property on which
such minor privilege is
located.  The Department of Finance may proceed to enforce the liability above
provided for or to
sell the property in satisfaction of such lien under the provisions of Article
81 of the Code of
Public General Laws of Maryland.
 (b)  “Temporary” and “permanent” defined; procedures.
Temporary minor privileges are those in the nature of awnings, barber poles,
signs, skids, clothes
racks, sidewalk displays and vending machines and the like, which can be removed
without a
material alteration of the property where the said privilege is located.
Permanent minor privileges are those in the nature of steps, porticoes, bay
windows, bow
windows, show windows, columns, tiers, covered vaults, covered areaways, drains
or drainpipes,
and the like which cannot be removed without a material alteration of the
property where the said
privilege is located.
  The procedure for granting minor privileges is set forth in Section 2 of this
Article VIII.
 (c)  Savings clause.
Nothing contained in this section shall affect the payment or collection of any
minor privilege
charges, temporary, or permanent, accruing before the year 1935 or the payment
or collection of
charges for permanent minor privileges during and after the year 1935.  As to
any of such charges
which are not paid when due, the Department of Finance may institute suit
against the holder of
the privilege and the owner of the property at the time the charge arose, and
shall record them in
the tax lien record, and they shall remain a lien until paid and may sell the
property at which the
privilege is located under the provisions of said Article 81.
 (d)  Designation by Board of Estimates.
In issuing minor privileges the Board of Estimates shall designate the same as
being “temporary”
or “permanent” as defined in this section.
