                              BALTIMORE CITY CHARTER

POWERS AND DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT. (§ VIII-132)

(a)  In general.
The Department has the powers and duties specified in this section.
 (b)  Supervision of municipal buildings, related improvements. 
(1)Unless otherwise provided by this Charter, the Director shall supervise all
municipal
buildings and related improvements made in Baltimore City or elsewhere by or for
the City or
any municipal agency.
  (2)All plans and specifications for these municipal buildings and related
improvements,
including those involving engineering questions, shall be submitted to the
Director for
approval.
(c)  Construction, maintenance, etc., of buildings, related improvements. 
(1)Unless otherwise provided by this Charter, the Department has charge of the
construction,
demolition, alteration, operation and maintenance of all municipal buildings and
related
improvements.
(2)To carry out these activities, the Director may enter and occupy any
municipal property after
giving due notice to the agency having control of the property.  The Director
shall restore any
property so entered to the condition in which it was before the entry.
 (d)  System of uniform property identification.
(1)The Department shall maintain a system for the uniform identification of all
real property
within Baltimore City.
  (2)The system shall identify each parcel of real property by a symbol.  That
symbol shall be used
by every municipal agency to identify that parcel, until it is subdivided or the
symbol is
changed by the Department.
  (3)The failure of the Department or of any other municipal agency to identify
a parcel of
property by its symbol does not affect the validity of any assessment or charge
otherwise
properly made.
 (e)  Plats and records – properties.
(1)The Department shall maintain adequate plats and other records of all parcels
of real property
within Baltimore City.
  (2)These plats and records shall include:
    (i)the ownership of each parcel; and
    (ii)the symbol by which each parcel is identified.
  (3)These plats and records shall be the official plats and records to be used
by all municipal
agencies to identify and determine the location of every parcel of real property
within
Baltimore City.
 (f)  Plats and records – underground structures.
The Department shall maintain plats and records of tunnels, pipes, mains,
sewers, conduits, and
other underground structures, both public and private.
 (g)  Fleet management.
(1)The Department is responsible for:
    (i)the maintenance, repair, and operation of all motor vehicles and related
equipment
owned by the City, whether held for general service or assigned for the use of a
particular office or agency, 
    (ii)the maintenance and operation of related garages, depots, and shops;
    (iii) the inspection of all City vehicles and related equipment and the
keeping of proper
records about how these vehicles and equipment are handled and operated;
    (iv) the assignment of these vehicles and related equipment for the use of
officers and
other agencies of the City; and
    (v) the maintenance or the hiring of any hauling or passenger service needed
by any
municipal agency.
  (2)This subsection does not apply to motor vehicles and related equipment of
the Baltimore City
Public School System, except to the extent requested by that department and
agreed to by the
Department of General Services.
 (h)  Assistance to other agencies.
On the request of the head of a municipal agency, the Director shall:
  (1)supply estimates of the cost of work for building improvements and vehicles
to be done
for that agency during the next fiscal year; and
  (2)perform services for the municipal agency of the same general character as
those carried
on by the Department, the cost of which shall be charged to the agency
requesting the
services and shall be paid out of the funds appropriated to it.
 (i)  Additional powers and duties. 
The Department has the additional powers and duties as are prescribed by law.
(Res. 08-003, ratified November 4, 2008.)
