                              BALTIMORE CITY CHARTER

ASSESSMENT OF BENEFITS AND DAMAGES. (§ VIII-116A)

(a)  Elements of enabling ordinance.
An ordinance to open, extend, widen, straighten, close, or grade any street,
alley, or footway in
Baltimore City may provide that the benefits assessed may be paid in not more
than 5 annual
installments, with interest at a rate determined just and proper by the Director
of Transportation,
with the concurrence of the Board of Estimates, on all deferred installments,
accounting from the
date that, under subsection (e) of this section, the first annual installment
would become in arrears if
unpaid.
 (b)  Notice to Finance, owner.
When the physical work required by the ordinance is completed:
   (1)the Department of Transportation shall notify the Director of Finance that
the work has
been completed; and
   (2)the Department of Finance shall give written notice to the property owner:
     (i)that the work has been completed; 
     (ii)that the benefits assessed for the work are due; and
     (iii) how the owner may obtain a hearing on the assessment.
 (c)  Payment for benefits. 
If the ordinance does not provide otherwise, all benefits assessed shall be
payable, at the option
of the property owner, either at once or in 5 equal annual installments.
 (d)  Damages.
(1)If, in any proceedings, the same person is assessed for benefits and also
awarded damages,
the damages shall be deducted from the benefits, and the provisions of this
section as to
payment of benefits apply only to the excess of the benefits over the damages.
(2)The damages awarded to any person in connection with the project shall be
payable at the
time or times provided in the ordinance.
(3)No part of any street, alley, or footway may be physically opened, extended,
widened, or
straightened on or over the ground of any person determined by the Department of
Transportation to be entitled to damages for the alteration without the written
consent of that
person, unless the damages have been paid to that person or paid into a special
account to the
credit of that person.
 (e)  Lien for benefits; arrearage.
(1)An assessment by the Department of Transportation on benefitted property is a
lien on that
property, in the full amount of the assessment, from the date the Department of
Transportation notifies the Director of Finance that the physical work required
has been
completed until the assessment is paid to the Director of Finance.
(2)Benefits assessed or, if payable in installments, the first installment, are
due and payable on
the date when the Director of Finance notifies the property owner of the
assessment, and are
in arrears 6 months from that date.
 (f)  Sale on default.
If the assessment on a property is in arrears, the Director of Finance shall
proceed to sell that
property in accordance with and subject to the same conditions imposed by the
laws governing
the sale of real estate charged with the payment of City taxes.
 (g)  Resale on purchaser’s default.
If the tax-sale purchaser fails to comply with the terms of the sale, the
Director of Finance shall
resell the property at the risk of the former purchaser. 
 (h)  Refunds of assessment.
If an ordinance providing for the opening, extending, widening, grading, or
closing of a street,
alley, or footway is invalidated by a court of competent jurisdiction or is
repealed, the Director of
Finance shall promptly:
   (1)refund all assessments paid under the invalidated ordinance; and
   (2)pay all expenses incurred, including reasonable attorney’s fees, and for
which the City is
liable in carrying out the ordinance.
(Res. 08-003, ratified November 4, 2008.)
